README.rst, before:

.. contents:: Table of Contents


Installation
============

Add the package as dependency to your setup.py:

.. code:: python

  setup(...
        install_requires=[
          ...
          'ftw.theming',
        ])

or to your buildout configuration:

.. code:: ini

  [instance]
  eggs += ftw.theming

and rerun buildout.


SCSS Registry
=============

The SCSS registry is configured with ZCML and contains all SCSS resources from
``ftw.theming``, addons, the theme and policy packages.


Inspecting the SCSS registry
----------------------------

The ``@@theming-resources`` (on any navigation root) lists all resources.


Resource slots
--------------

The registry allows to register resources to a list of fix slots.
Theese are the available slots, sorted by inclusion order:

- ``top``
- ``variables``
- ``ftw.theming``
- ``addon``
- ``theme``
- ``policy``
- ``bottom``

Adding resources
----------------

Adding SCSS resources is done in the ZCML of a package.
The SCSS should always go into the same package where the styled templates are.

Registering a resource
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: xml

    <configure
        xmlns:theme="http://namespaces.zope.org/ftw.theming"
        xmlns:zcml="http://namespaces.zope.org/zcml"
        i18n_domain="ftw.tabbedview">

        <configure zcml:condition="installed ftw.theming">
          <include package="ftw.theming" />

          <theme:scss
              file="resources/tabbed.scss"
              slot="addon"
              profile="ftw.tabbedview:default"
              />
        </configure>

    </configure>


Options for standalone ``theme:scss``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``file``: relative path to the SCSS file (required)
- ``slot``: name of the slot (see slots section, default: ``addon``)
- ``profile``: Generic Setup profile required to be installed (default:
  no profile, e.g. ``my.package:default``)
- ``for``: context interface (default: ``INavigationRoot``)
- ``layer``: request layer interface (default: ``Interface``)
- ``before``: name of the resource after which this resource should be ordered
  (within the same slot).
- ``after``: name of the resource before which this resource should be ordered
  (within the same slot)


Registering multiple resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: xml

    <configure
        xmlns:theme="http://namespaces.zope.org/ftw.theming"
        xmlns:zcml="http://namespaces.zope.org/zcml"
        i18n_domain="plonetheme.fancy">

        <include package="ftw.theming" />

        <theme:resources
            slot="theme"
            profile="plonetheme.fancy:default"
            layer="plonetheme.fancy.interfaces.IFancyTheme">

            <theme:scss file="resources/foo.scss" />
            <theme:scss file="resources/bar.scss" />

        </theme:resources>

    </configure>

Options for ``theme:resources``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``slot``: name of the slot (see slots section, default: ``addon``)
- ``profile``: Generic Setup profile required to be installed (default:
  no profile, e.g. ``my.package:default``)
- ``for``: context interface (default: ``INavigationRoot``)
- ``layer``: request layer interface (default: ``Interface``)

Options for ``theme:scss`` within ``theme:resources``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``file``: relative path to the SCSS file (required)
- ``before``: name of the resource after which this resource should be ordered
  (within the same slot).
- ``after``: name of the resource before which this resource should be ordered
  (within the same slot)


Resource names
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each resource has an automatically generated name, which can be looked up in the
``@@theming-resources``-view.
The resource has the format ``[package]:[relative path]``.


Resource Ordering
-----------------

The SCSS resources are ordered when retrieved from the registry, so that the
order is as consistent as possible.

Ordering priority:

1. the resource's ``slot`` (see the slot section below)
1. the ``before`` and ``after`` options (topological graph sorting), within each slot.
1. the ZCML load order of the resources

Be aware that the ZCML load order is usally random.


Resource factories for dynamic resources
----------------------------------------

A resource factory is a callable (accepting context and request) which returns
an ``ISCSSResource`` object.
Since the callable instantiates the resource, it's content can be created dynamically.


.. code:: xml

    <configure
        xmlns:theme="http://namespaces.zope.org/ftw.theming"
        xmlns:zcml="http://namespaces.zope.org/zcml"
        i18n_domain="plonetheme.fancy">

        <include package="ftw.theming" />

        <theme:scss_factory factory=".dynamic_resource_factory" />

    </configure>


.. code:: python

    from ftw.theming.interfaces import ISCSSResourceFactory
    from ftw.theming.resource import ISCSSResource
    from zope.interface import provider

    @provider(ISCSSResourceFactory)
    def dynamic_resource_factory(context, request):
        return ISCSSResource('dynamic.scss', slot='addon', source='$color: blue;')



Links
=====

- Github: https://github.com/4teamwork/ftw.theming
- Issues: https://github.com/4teamwork/ftw.theming/issues
- Pypi: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/ftw.theming
- Continuous integration: https://jenkins.4teamwork.ch/search?q=ftw.theming

Copyright
=========

This package is copyright by `4teamwork <http://www.4teamwork.ch/>`_.

``ftw.theming`` is licensed under GNU General Public License, version 2.

Commit message:

add some default theming variables with controlpanel view.

README.rst, after:

.. contents:: Table of Contents


Installation
============

Add the package as dependency to your setup.py:

.. code:: python

  setup(...
        install_requires=[
          ...
          'ftw.theming',
        ])

or to your buildout configuration:

.. code:: ini

  [instance]
  eggs += ftw.theming

and rerun buildout.


SCSS Registry
=============

The SCSS registry is configured with ZCML and contains all SCSS resources from
``ftw.theming``, addons, the theme and policy packages.


Inspecting the SCSS registry
----------------------------

The ``@@theming-resources`` (on any navigation root) lists all resources.


Resource slots
--------------

The registry allows to register resources to a list of fix slots.
Theese are the available slots, sorted by inclusion order:

- ``top``
- ``variables``
- ``ftw.theming``
- ``addon``
- ``theme``
- ``policy``
- ``bottom``

Adding resources
----------------

Adding SCSS resources is done in the ZCML of a package.
The SCSS should always go into the same package where the styled templates are.

Registering a resource
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: xml

    <configure
        xmlns:theme="http://namespaces.zope.org/ftw.theming"
        xmlns:zcml="http://namespaces.zope.org/zcml"
        i18n_domain="ftw.tabbedview">

        <configure zcml:condition="installed ftw.theming">
          <include package="ftw.theming" />

          <theme:scss
              file="resources/tabbed.scss"
              slot="addon"
              profile="ftw.tabbedview:default"
              />
        </configure>

    </configure>


Options for standalone ``theme:scss``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``file``: relative path to the SCSS file (required)
- ``slot``: name of the slot (see slots section, default: ``addon``)
- ``profile``: Generic Setup profile required to be installed (default:
  no profile, e.g. ``my.package:default``)
- ``for``: context interface (default: ``INavigationRoot``)
- ``layer``: request layer interface (default: ``Interface``)
- ``before``: name of the resource after which this resource should be ordered
  (within the same slot).
- ``after``: name of the resource before which this resource should be ordered
  (within the same slot)


Registering multiple resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: xml

    <configure
        xmlns:theme="http://namespaces.zope.org/ftw.theming"
        xmlns:zcml="http://namespaces.zope.org/zcml"
        i18n_domain="plonetheme.fancy">

        <include package="ftw.theming" />

        <theme:resources
            slot="theme"
            profile="plonetheme.fancy:default"
            layer="plonetheme.fancy.interfaces.IFancyTheme">

            <theme:scss file="resources/foo.scss" />
            <theme:scss file="resources/bar.scss" />

        </theme:resources>

    </configure>

Options for ``theme:resources``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``slot``: name of the slot (see slots section, default: ``addon``)
- ``profile``: Generic Setup profile required to be installed (default:
  no profile, e.g. ``my.package:default``)
- ``for``: context interface (default: ``INavigationRoot``)
- ``layer``: request layer interface (default: ``Interface``)

Options for ``theme:scss`` within ``theme:resources``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``file``: relative path to the SCSS file (required)
- ``before``: name of the resource after which this resource should be ordered
  (within the same slot).
- ``after``: name of the resource before which this resource should be ordered
  (within the same slot)


Resource names
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each resource has an automatically generated name, which can be looked up in the
``@@theming-resources``-view.
The resource has the format ``[package]:[relative path]``.


Resource Ordering
-----------------

The SCSS resources are ordered when retrieved from the registry, so that the
order is as consistent as possible.

Ordering priority:

1. the resource's ``slot`` (see the slot section below)
1. the ``before`` and ``after`` options (topological graph sorting), within each slot.
1. the ZCML load order of the resources

Be aware that the ZCML load order is usally random.


Resource factories for dynamic resources
----------------------------------------

A resource factory is a callable (accepting context and request) which returns
an ``ISCSSResource`` object.
Since the callable instantiates the resource, it's content can be created dynamically.


.. code:: xml

    <configure
        xmlns:theme="http://namespaces.zope.org/ftw.theming"
        xmlns:zcml="http://namespaces.zope.org/zcml"
        i18n_domain="plonetheme.fancy">

        <include package="ftw.theming" />

        <theme:scss_factory factory=".dynamic_resource_factory" />

    </configure>


.. code:: python

    from ftw.theming.interfaces import ISCSSResourceFactory
    from ftw.theming.resource import ISCSSResource
    from zope.interface import provider

    @provider(ISCSSResourceFactory)
    def dynamic_resource_factory(context, request):
        return ISCSSResource('dynamic.scss', slot='addon', source='$color: blue;')



Control Panel
=============

When ``ftw.theming`` is installed, a control panel is added, listing the
SCSS resources and the default SCSS variables.
The controlpanel views are available on any navigation root.



Links
=====

- Github: https://github.com/4teamwork/ftw.theming
- Issues: https://github.com/4teamwork/ftw.theming/issues
- Pypi: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/ftw.theming
- Continuous integration: https://jenkins.4teamwork.ch/search?q=ftw.theming

Copyright
=========

This package is copyright by `4teamwork <http://www.4teamwork.ch/>`_.

``ftw.theming`` is licensed under GNU General Public License, version 2.
